_readings/2026-01-16-claude-code-github-pages.md, before:

---
layout: reading
title: "From Hard Fork - How to ...free website w/ Claude Code and GitHub Pages"
date: 2026-01-16
author: john garrish
---

I got the idea for this approach from the <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2026/01/09/podcasts/hardfork-grok-crisis-claude-code.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Hard Fork podcast episode</a> where Kevin Roose and Casey Newton discuss building websites with Claude Code. Both of their sites were created this way:
- <a href="https://kevinroose.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">kevinroose.com</a>
- <a href="https://cnewton.org" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">cnewton.org</a>

And yes, this very site (<a href="https://bellemonti.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">bellemonti.com</a>) was built the same way! (more on this below)

---

## Background

Kevin Roose describes replacing his Squarespace website (which cost $192/year) with a free website hosted on GitHub, built using Claude Code in about 20 minutes. I moved mine from Wix (which was great) but I saved about $350 / year.

## Steps

### 1. Set Up Claude Code
- Install <a href="https://claude.com/product/claude-code" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Claude Code</a> on your computer - <a href="https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/quickstart" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Download and installation instructions</a>
- Claude Code is an autonomous coding agent that puts the Claude chatbot inside your terminal window
- It can take instructions in plain English and execute tasks autonomously

### 2. Provide Your Requirements
Kevin's approach:
- Give Claude Code your old website as a reference
- Tell it to make it look like other sites you like
- Provide specific instructions about what you want

Example prompt structure:
- "I have an old website at [URL]. Can you recreate it but make it look like [reference sites]?"
- Or: "Build me a personal website with [features]"

### 3. Let Claude Code Build It
- Claude Code will handle the orchestration and execution
- No need for copying and pasting code
- It will check in with you but can work autonomously
- Kevin's website took about 20 minutes to build

### 4. Host on GitHub Pages
- Once built, host the website on GitHub (free)
- This replaces paid hosting services like Squarespace
- GitHub Pages can host static websites for free

### 5. Cancel Your Old Hosting!!


## Key features you can add

Based on Casey's experience building <a href="https://cnewton.org" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">cnewton.org</a>:

- **Responsive design** - Works on mobile and desktop automatically
- **Dynamic widgets** - Pull in recent content (articles, podcast episodes, social media posts)
- **Email subscription forms** - Add signup functionality
- **Social media feeds** - Display recent posts from Bluesky, Twitter, etc.
- **Animations and effects** - Mouse-over effects, interactive elements
- **Easter eggs** - Fun hidden features (like Kevin's GeoCities mode button)

## Tips and considerations

### What works well
- Building static websites
- Creating personal websites and portfolios
- Adding features incrementally (just ask Claude Code to add them)
- Iterating quickly - Casey built his site in about an hour on day one

### Potential challenges
- Claude Code may overengineer things - you might need to walk it back from complexity
- Some websites may be hostile to AI agents (like The New York Times)
- Browser automation can be slow - Claude has to take screenshots and analyze them
- Learn what tasks are "AI-shaped" vs. what you should do manually

### Best practices
- Start simple and add features incrementally
- Be specific about what you want
- Don't be afraid to ask for changes or refinements
- Test the website thoroughly before canceling your old hosting

## Time investment

- Kevin: ~20 minutes for a basic personal website
- Casey: ~1 hour for a fully-featured personal website with multiple widgets and integrations

## How I use it for Bellemonti.com

The Bellemonti.com website (this site) is built using Claude Code using Jekyll and GitHub Pages, which means all content is managed through markdown files.

I can edit any page, blog post, or reading by simply opening the markdown file and making changes, including any rudimentary formatting which is really all I need. 

Markdown is particularly well-suited for product managers because it focuses on content, not either hyper-marketing-formatting or quasi-readable-dev-formatting. It is readable in plain text.

The best, though - markdown is the native language of AI coding assistants, making it easy to get help with documentation, specs, and content. It works everywhere, and by everywhere I mean in Cursor. Unlike MSFT Word which has so much junk formatting embedded in it.

---

## See the code / use the code

<a href="https://github.com/gibbygee/bellemonti-website" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/modules/logos_page/GitHub-Mark.png" alt="GitHub" width="50" style="vertical-align: middle; margin-right: 10px;">
  Go here if you want to see how I did it!
</a>

Commit message:

Enhance content on using markdown for Bellemonti.com and outline future consulting applications
Added sections detailing the current use of markdown for managing content on Bellemonti.com and proposed future applications for consulting. Emphasized the advantages of markdown for product managers and the potential for creating a verifiable information repository for clients.

_readings/2026-01-16-claude-code-github-pages.md, after:

---
layout: reading
title: "From Hard Fork - How to ...free website w/ Claude Code and GitHub Pages"
date: 2026-01-16
author: john garrish
---

I got the idea for this approach from the <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2026/01/09/podcasts/hardfork-grok-crisis-claude-code.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Hard Fork podcast episode</a> where Kevin Roose and Casey Newton discuss building websites with Claude Code. Both of their sites were created this way:
- <a href="https://kevinroose.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">kevinroose.com</a>
- <a href="https://cnewton.org" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">cnewton.org</a>

And yes, this very site (<a href="https://bellemonti.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">bellemonti.com</a>) was built the same way! (more on this below)

## How I currently use it for Bellemonti.com

The Bellemonti.com website (this site) is built using Claude Code using Jekyll and GitHub Pages, which means all content is managed through markdown files.

I can edit any page, blog post, or reading by simply opening the markdown file and making changes, including any rudimentary formatting which is really all I need. 

Markdown is particularly well-suited for product managers because it focuses on content, not either hyper-marketing-formatting or quasi-readable-dev-formatting. It is readable in plain text.

The best, though - markdown is the native language of AI coding assistants, making it easy to get help with documentation, specs, and content. It works everywhere, and by everywhere I mean in Cursor. Unlike MSFT Word which has so much junk formatting embedded in it.

## How I intend to use it!

I think there is a virtuous loop here for consulting - whereby the consultant (me) can build a repo of verifiable information for a client. And using this kind of web framework, it would make it very easy to show the deliverable as it's built (rather than, say, viewing in Cursor which is very hard for civilians). Because its built on markdown, it would allow me to combine a few presentation pages ("here is where we are") but with, also, access to the work. Standby for where this goes.
---

## See the code / use the code

<a href="https://github.com/gibbygee/bellemonti-website" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
  <img src="https://github.githubassets.com/images/modules/logos_page/GitHub-Mark.png" alt="GitHub" width="50" style="vertical-align: middle; margin-right: 10px;">
  Go here if you want to see how I did it!
</a>

---

## Background

Kevin Roose describes replacing his Squarespace website (which cost $192/year) with a free website hosted on GitHub, built using Claude Code in about 20 minutes. I moved mine from Wix (which was great) but I saved about $350 / year.

## Steps

### 1. Set Up Claude Code
- Install <a href="https://claude.com/product/claude-code" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Claude Code</a> on your computer - <a href="https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/quickstart" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Download and installation instructions</a>
- Claude Code is an autonomous coding agent that puts the Claude chatbot inside your terminal window
- It can take instructions in plain English and execute tasks autonomously

### 2. Provide Your Requirements
Kevin's approach:
- Give Claude Code your old website as a reference
- Tell it to make it look like other sites you like
- Provide specific instructions about what you want

Example prompt structure:
- "I have an old website at [URL]. Can you recreate it but make it look like [reference sites]?"
- Or: "Build me a personal website with [features]"

### 3. Let Claude Code Build It
- Claude Code will handle the orchestration and execution
- No need for copying and pasting code
- It will check in with you but can work autonomously
- Kevin's website took about 20 minutes to build

### 4. Host on GitHub Pages
- Once built, host the website on GitHub (free)
- This replaces paid hosting services like Squarespace
- GitHub Pages can host static websites for free

### 5. Cancel Your Old Hosting!!


## Key features you can add

Based on Casey's experience building <a href="https://cnewton.org" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">cnewton.org</a>:

- **Responsive design** - Works on mobile and desktop automatically
- **Dynamic widgets** - Pull in recent content (articles, podcast episodes, social media posts)
- **Email subscription forms** - Add signup functionality
- **Social media feeds** - Display recent posts from Bluesky, Twitter, etc.
- **Animations and effects** - Mouse-over effects, interactive elements
- **Easter eggs** - Fun hidden features (like Kevin's GeoCities mode button)

## Tips and considerations

### What works well
- Building static websites
- Creating personal websites and portfolios
- Adding features incrementally (just ask Claude Code to add them)
- Iterating quickly - Casey built his site in about an hour on day one

### Potential challenges
- Claude Code may overengineer things - you might need to walk it back from complexity
- Some websites may be hostile to AI agents (like The New York Times)
- Browser automation can be slow - Claude has to take screenshots and analyze them
- Learn what tasks are "AI-shaped" vs. what you should do manually

### Best practices
- Start simple and add features incrementally
- Be specific about what you want
- Don't be afraid to ask for changes or refinements
- Test the website thoroughly before canceling your old hosting

## Time investment

- Kevin: ~20 minutes for a basic personal website
- Casey: ~1 hour for a fully-featured personal website with multiple widgets and integrations
